---
title: CSS & Newfound Creative Outlet
---

One thing I love about learning front-end development is the art and design aspects of it. As an undergrad, I spend nearly as much time in the art studio as I did in the science lab. Now, as I continue to learn programming, I'm constantly delighted to encounter challenges that require both technical and creative thinking. 

Some of the first visually creative challenges I've encountered involved designing how a website or app looks with CSS. Playing with colors, sizes, positioning, etc. is important to get a user-friendly and inviting site that people want to spend time on. However, as someone new to programming, CSS still brings me a lot of headaches as I'm trying to make the style how I envision it.

As a fun way to become more comfortable with CSS, I went through <a target="_blank" href="https://flukeout.github.io/">CSS Diner</a> today. It's a set of 32 challenges that teach CSS selectors with the help of cute graphics. As the name implies, the challenges are all diner-themed, and you must type in the correct CSS selector that corresponds to a given item on the dining table. As I went through the challenges, I learned some selectors that I've never encountered before, such as the negation pseudo-class ```:not(X)```, and practiced using some selectors that I've never needed to use yet, such as ```:nth-child(A)```. Overall, I'd say CSS Diner is a great site and I am glad to have found it!

Speaking of art and design, I have also recently downloaded free image editing softward: Gimp and Inkscape. I will be going through some tutorials to familiarize myself with these tools, and will see how useful they are to pair with web design.

That's all for now. Thanks for reading!
